.TH RUDU 1 "December 2024" "rudu 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
rudu \- fast, parallel Rust CLI tool for analyzing directory sizes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rudu
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fIPATH\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B rudu
is a fast, parallel Rust CLI tool for analyzing directory sizes and finding the largest directories under a given path. It provides a modern, performant alternative to the traditional \fBdu\fR command with a focus on identifying space-consuming directories quickly using parallel processing.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show help information and exit
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Show version information and exit
.TP
.B \-n, \-\-number \fINUMBER\fR
Number of top results to show (default: 10)
.TP
.B \-q, \-\-quiet
Suppress informational messages for scripting
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-cache
Enable caching for faster subsequent scans
.TP
.B \-\-cache\-age \fIHOURS\fR
Maximum cache age in hours (default: 24)
.TP
.B \-\-cache\-stats
Show cache statistics
.TP
.B \-\-clear\-cache
Clear all cached data
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.B PATH
Root directory to analyze (default: "/")
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B rudu
Analyze root directory, show top 10 largest subdirectories
.TP
.B rudu .
Analyze current directory, show top 10 largest subdirectories
.TP
.B rudu /home/user/Documents
Analyze specific directory
.TP
.B rudu \-n 20 /var/log
Show top 20 largest directories in /var/log
.TP
.B rudu \-\-number 5 /usr/local
Show top 5 largest directories with long flag
.TP
.B rudu \-q /var/log
Analyze /var/log with quiet mode (suppress informational messages)
.SH OUTPUT FORMAT
The output shows a numbered list of directories with their sizes in human-readable format (KB, MB, GB, etc.) and their relative paths, followed by a summary with timing information:
.PP
.nf
ðŸ” Scanning directory: /home/user/Documents
ðŸ”¥  1.    1.2 GB  Videos
ðŸ“¦  2.  456.7 MB  Photos
ðŸ“  3.  123.4 MB  Projects

ðŸ“Š Summary of /home/user/Documents
ðŸ’¾ Total file size: 2.4 GB
ðŸ“‹ Total files: 2847
â±ï¸  Time taken: 125.43ms
.fi
.SH PERFORMANCE
.B rudu
uses parallel processing for optimal performance:
.IP \(bu 2
Recursive directory traversal using efficient algorithms
.IP \(bu 2
Parallel sorting of results for large datasets
.IP \(bu 2
Safe symlink handling to prevent infinite loops
.IP \(bu 2
Memory usage scales with directory count, not file count
.SH EXIT STATUS
.B rudu
exits with status 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by ayungavis.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to: https://github.com/ayungavis/rudu/issues
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2024 ayungavis. License MIT.
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR du (1),
.BR find (1),
.BR ls (1) 